Kalinin is a household name when it
comes to the ultimate in four-wheel
driving he is a culinary expert in
camping tucker and he knows what it's
like to tame the kids on a family
getaway now before we meet him let's
have a lovely story he's made a home on
10 and 1 with his unrivaled knowledge of
four-wheel drive getaways and the
ultimate camping cuisine when it comes
to Pat Catalans 4x4 adventures he's the
king of the outback now too many for
drivers this is their favorite off-road
destination in all of Australia he's got
the secrets to keeping the kids
entertained on family trips and all the
tips you need to dine 5-star around the
campfire give him a big studio ten
welcome as he parks his car and pulls
over to the panel
it's Pat kaolin time when kids are so
obsessed with screens and iPads and what
have you do you have any tips for
parents and great spots where parents
can take kids and get them back to
nature absolutely I mean the beauty of
having a four-wheel drive and being able
to get way beyond where the tool buses
can go it just opens up this massive
part of Australia that most people don't
get to see and when you're actually out
there it can be extremely educational I
mean outback Queensland you can see
places like the dinosaur quarry where
these there was it's the only world's
only recorded actual dinosaur stampede
happened out there and that's all
fossilized out this is just out the back
of Winton so probably about 50 cows out
of winter no mobile reception don't we
love it do you find the kids get
withdrawals from their you know their
iPads and their watching my cos they
find their video games and how do you
stop them how do you stop them from
turning into just monsters look there's
this wonderful drug called for noggin
and you know he's wonderful to see their
kids go off the grid isn't it amazing
all that old stuff look it's amazing you
don't actually have to do a lot to get
them excited because nature does it all
I mean my kids
traveled across the simpson desert in
their nappies you know this is a trip
that a lot of adults wouldn't get to do
you know they're finding new animals
they're checking out wombats just down
in Tasmania a couple of weeks ago
thorny Devils on the canning stock route
so it's all kind of there and it's
amazing just when you look at those
devices that they normally glued to in
the bush
they don't have that glue anymore so
even the the headrest DVD is that a lot
of people using their four-wheel drives
our kids don't actually tend to look at
them they'll sort of look at the first
15 minutes and go no actually I'm going
to look at something a list of do's and
don'ts for parents I mean you make it
sound so easy
well look really I think you know a bit
of practice makes perfect but when it
comes to traveling on the road it's
really you've got to have a flexible
itinerary if the kids are a bit tired
then it's really a good idea to sort of
take a break and and just let you know
have a bit of a rest from someone though
who my dad would insist on taking me
camping when I was little and it did my
head in it was tricky what is a way to
entice kids maybe food some good food
it's not a bad idea we just made that
little dam
who does wrong things you know what I
love about having you sitting on the
couch is that I I think I could smell a
barbecue you know smoke mustard Fermi
energy Jack because this is terrific
sort of very smoky smell that yeah did
you make this I did so this is this is
my soon-to-be famous cheesy damper bond
so when we were down in bruny island we
picks up picked up this wonderful soft
rind cheese and so you sort of half cook
the damper and then you drop the soft
cheese in the middle that is a carb
since I should have such a wealth of
knowledge thank you so much for joining
us here on the couch today and all of
you at home you are all taking home one
of Pat's fantastic books it's got some
great on the road recipes having
breakfast at lunch and dinner 99 great
recipes and a bonus Bush cooking DVD
which will have to watch at home of
course Pat thank you so much for coming
in four-wheel drive adventures on 10 and
want it to o'clock each Saturday's
plenty more to come on Studio 10 stay
with us